All right, so the first thing that we're
gonna do is we're just gonna get rid of
this placeholder markup.
We don't need that anymore.
Now looking at a blank page.
And we wanna create a game component,
which is where the bulk of
our logic is going to live.
So in the File Explorer, I'm gonna
create a component alongside here,
just call it Game.svelte.
And then inside the page.svelte component,
I'm gonna start typing the word game,
and it's gonna auto import that for me.
Just hit Enter.
You can see that it is added
the import declaration and everything.
And so now we can start building the game
inside our Game.svelte component.
Now, there's a lot of ways that you can
go about building something like this.
The way that I tend to like to do things
is build out a very rough user interface
so that have a sense of
what things can look like.
And then we can start adding the game
logic once we have the basic UI in place,
and then finally we'll add some polish.
So I'm gonna create div class equals game.
And inside there, let me bring up
the game so that we can see it.
We have a grid in the center
of the screen, and
we have two blocks either side.
So we have a block of content at the
bottom where the pairs that we've found
go, and we have a block of content at
the top where the countdown timer goes,
and then the big chunk in
the middle is the game grid.
So I'm gonna begin by roughing that out.
We'll call the bits at the top and
the bottom class equals, let's say info.
Duplicate that.
And then in the middle,
we're gonna have our grid container.
And then in the same component,
we'll have some styles that control
the placement of all of these elements.
So to get that layout where
everything is centered and
aligned, it's very convenient
to use a flex layout.
I'm gonna use display: flex.
And we're gonna give it a flex-direction
of column, which means that
the first element will be at the top,
followed by the container below it,
as opposed to it on the right-hand side,
followed by the final info block.
We'll give it a justify content of center,
and an align-items of center.
Something that I'll often do when
I'm roughing out a UI is I will give
the elements that I'm working
with an ugly background color so
that I can see what space
they're taking up on the screen.
So for the info elements, we're gonna
give it a, let's say a width of 80vmin.
If you haven't seen vmin before,
it is the minimum of either vw,
which is the width of the screen
divided by 100, or vh,
which is the height of
the screen divided by 100.
And it's what allows us to have a user
interface that will scale down and
always fit inside the screen, whether it's
on a desktop in a landscape aspect ratio,
or if someone's using it on their phone.
Give it height of, say, 10vmin, like so,
and then a background of, say, purple.
And then the grid container,
that's gonna have,
again, a width of 80vmin.
And the same height because it's a square.
And we'll give that a background of,
let's say, teal.
Okay, so far so good, but
it's not centered vertically, and
that's because we haven't added
the right height to the game element,
so sticker 100% on there.
Still not working, and
that's because we need to
have the 100% applied to
the elements that contain this.
So at this point, I'm gonna pause and
come out of Svelte and
add a global style sheet.
Inside my source directory,
I'm gonna add styles.css.
And you could do all this with component
styles using the global modifier or
whatever.
But I find that in just about every
project, I will typically have a bunch of
styles related to things like typography
and colors, CSS custom properties,
things like that,
that are shared by everything on the page.
And so it's convenient to have
a place to put all of that stuff.
So I'll often have a source/styles.css or
something like that.
In here, I'm gonna add the piece of
CSS that has saved me the most time
in all the time I've been writing CSS,
which is every element by
default has a position of relative and
a box-sizing of border-box.
And then the thing that we
came here to do is to add,
on the HTML element and on the body,
we want a height of 100%.
And we also wanna get rid of
the margin because otherwise,
that's gonna mess with
our height measurements.
Last thing we need to do, of course,
is import the styles into our app,
otherwise, they'll have no effect.
So inside page.svelte,
I'm gonna do import../styles.css.
Obviously, you can't normally
do this in a JavaScript module,
we are using a Vite feature here.
The fact that you can import CSS is
something that Vite brings to the table.
During development, it will extract
all of the important CSS, minify it,
optimize it, and then spit it out into a
separate bundle of CSS that can be cached
immutably so that it's really good for
the performance, and so on.
And just authoring wise, it's very simple
to be able to add an import like this.
So even though it's kind of non-standard,
very cool.
All right, now our global CSS
is being applied to the page and
we can see the grid is now centered, nice.